# Overview

This project involves a comprehensive analysis of with Coffee Sales dataset. Using Power BI Tool, we analyzed the data and answered the key business questions with the help of dashboards and report and derive insights.The following README provides a detailed account of the project's objectives, business problems, solutions, findings, and conclusions.

# Business Case

While building dashboards, we cleaned the data. Once we cleaned the data, we answered below questions:

-  What variables can be derived out of the data which can be helpful? 
-  Who can use this dashboard? 
-  What value would be generated by using this dashboard ? 
-  What additional data can be helpful to add more insights & value to the team?

### Final Deliverables: 

-  Analytics Dashboard using Power BI Tool 
-  Detailed document summarizing the insights

## KPI Requirements

### Total Sales Analysis

- Calculated the total sales for each respective month.
- Determined the Month-on-Month increase or decrease in total sales.
- Calculated difference in total sales betweeen selected month and previous month.

### Total Orders Analysis

- Calculated the total orders for each respective month.
- Determined the Month-on-Month increase or decrease in total orders.
- Calculated difference in total orders betweeen selected month and previous month.

### Total Quantity sold Analysis

- Calculated the total quantity sold for each respective month.
- Determined the Month-on-Month increase or decrease in total quantity sold.
- Calculated difference in total quantity sold betweeen selected month and previous month.
  

## Business Questions:

Some of the insights that we were able to derive using our data analysis tool:

- Implemented a calendar heatmap that dynamically adjusts based on selected month on slicer.
- Implemeted tooltips to display detailed metrics when hovering over a specific day.
- Segmented sales data into weekdays and weekend to analyze perfomance variations.
- Visualized sales data for different locations and highlighted MoM trends.
- We displayed daily sales for the selected month with a line chart.
- Incoporated an average line on the chart to represent the average daily sales.
- Highlight bars exceeding or falling below the average sales to indetify exceptional sales days.
- Analyzed sales performance accross difeerent product categories.
- Indentified and displayed the top 10 products based on sales volume.
- Utilized heatmap to visualize sales patterns by days and hours.

## Data Dictionary

- transaction_id
- transaction_date
- transaction_time
- transaction_qty
- store_id
- store_location
- product_id
- unit_price
- product_category
- product_type
- product_details
- sales


  



